README.md, before:

# Artist Roadmap v1.0

A comprehensive React + TypeScript application for AI-powered artist assessment, project planning, and music career development.

## 🎯 Overview

The Artist Roadmap combines AI-driven personality assessment with professional project management tools to help music artists:

- **Assess readiness** through AI-powered chat analysis and maturity evaluation
- **Plan projects** with realistic timelines and budget estimation
- **Get insights** from industry benchmarks and success probability calculations
- **Track progress** through comprehensive project management tools

## ✨ Key Features

### 🎵 Multi-Track Catalog Analysis
- **Spotify Integration**: Import tracks directly via Spotify URL (or download & upload)
- **Audio Feature Extraction**: Tempo, energy, danceability, acousticness, valence, and more
- **Quality Scoring**: Professional assessment of production, mix, arrangement, and vocals
- **Consistency Analysis**: Track-to-track quality variance and reliability metrics
- **Trend Detection**: Quality progression over time (improving/declining/stable)
- **Sonic Identity**: Genre fingerprint and stylistic coherence analysis

### 🤖 AI-Powered Strategic Planning
- **Context-Aware Chat**: Planning conversation informed by your catalog analysis
- **Smart Recommendations**: Project suggestions based on actual music quality and quantity
- **Planning Focus**: Timeline, budget, and goal-oriented questions (not personality tests)
- **Progress Tracking**: Visual indicators show planning completion status
- **Intelligent Defaults**: Chat responses inform automatic roadmap generation

### 📊 Data-Driven Roadmap Generation
- **Smart Project Type**: Album/EP/Singles automatically suggested based on catalog metrics
- **Adaptive Timeline**: Adjusts for artist maturity stage and project complexity
- **Budget Estimation**: Scales with scope and includes grant funding opportunities
- **Phase-Based Organization**: Discovery → Pre-Production → Production → Post-Production → Release → Growth
- **Interactive Visualizations**: Timeline and budget charts using Recharts

### � Grant Discovery & Application Tracking
- **500+ Real Opportunities**: Comprehensive database of music grants and funding
- **Intelligent Matching**: AI-powered compatibility scoring (80%+ accuracy)
- **Application Management**: Full lifecycle tracking from discovery to funding outcome
- **Deadline Alerts**: Automated reminders and urgency indicators
- **Eligibility Filtering**: Stage, genre, location, and amount-based search

### 🔄 Returning User Experience
- **Welcome Back Dashboard**: Personalized greeting and status overview
- **Quick Actions**: Jump directly to Continue, Re-analyze, View Roadmap, or Explore Grants
- **Progress Preservation**: No forced re-onboarding for users with existing data
- **Smart Resume**: Automatically returns to your last active section
- **Data Persistence**: Automatic localStorage backup with manual reset options

## 🚀 Quick Start

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/trentbecknell/soundsexpensive.git
cd soundsexpensive

# Install dependencies
npm install

# Start development server
npm run dev

# Build for production
npm run build

# Preview production build
npm run preview
```

## 💡 How It Works

The Artist Roadmap uses an **analysis-first approach** that ensures data-driven planning:

### 1. Catalog Analysis (Analyze Your Current State)
Start by understanding where you are today:
- **Upload or connect your music** via Spotify URL or direct file upload
- **Multi-track analysis** assesses quality, consistency, and sonic identity
- **Quality progression tracking** shows improvement trends over time
- **Genre and style consistency** reveals your sonic fingerprint
- **Actionable insights** highlight strengths and growth opportunities

### 2. Strategic Planning Chat (Plan Your Next Move)
Have a focused conversation about your goals:
- **Context-aware AI** references your catalog analysis results
- **Planning-focused questions** about timeline, budget, and goals
- **Smart suggestions** based on your actual music quality and quantity
- **Progress tracking** ensures comprehensive planning (minimum 3 responses)
- **No personality tests** - just practical, forward-looking strategy

### 3. Smart Roadmap Generation (Build Your Path Forward)
Automatically generate an intelligent project plan:
- **Data-driven project type** (Album/EP/Singles) based on catalog quality and quantity
- **Realistic timeline** adjusts for your maturity level and catalog readiness
- **Budget estimation** scales with project scope and includes grant opportunities
- **Phase-based tasks** organized from Discovery → Release → Growth
- **Visual charts** for timeline and budget analysis

### 4. Returning User Experience
Personalized dashboard for users with existing progress:
- **Welcome back greeting** with time-of-day awareness
- **Status overview** showing catalog analysis, roadmap, and grant tracking
- **Quick actions** to continue where you left off
- **No forced re-onboarding** - jump straight back into your work

### Why This Flow Works
1. **Real data drives decisions** - analyze actual music before planning
2. **No wasted effort** - catalog insights inform every recommendation
3. **Faster to value** - skip repetitive setup on return visits
4. **Context-aware planning** - chat knows your music's strengths and gaps
5. **Smart defaults** - roadmap suggestions based on proven patterns

## 🏗️ Technical Architecture

### Frontend Stack
- **React 18** with TypeScript for type-safe development
- **Vite** for lightning-fast development and optimized builds
- **Tailwind CSS** for utility-first styling and responsive design
- **Recharts** for interactive data visualizations

### Data Layer
- **Schema-Based Assessment**: Comprehensive TypeScript interfaces
- **Industry Benchmarks**: Genre-specific modeling and calculations
- **State Management**: React hooks with localStorage persistence
- **Analysis Engine**: Natural language processing for chat assessment

### Project Structure
```
src/
├── App.tsx                      # Main application orchestration & flow control
├── components/
│   ├── OnboardingWelcome.tsx    # First-time user 3-step journey explanation
│   ├── WelcomeBackDashboard.tsx # Returning user dashboard with quick actions
│   ├── CatalogAnalyzer.tsx      # Multi-track analysis with Spotify integration
│   ├── Chat.tsx                 # Planning-focused AI chat interface
│   ├── GrantDiscovery.tsx       # Grant browsing and filtering
│   ├── GrantApplicationTracker.tsx # Application lifecycle management
│   ├── AssessmentWizard.tsx     # Guided maturity assessment
│   └── Toast.tsx                # Notification system
├── lib/
│   ├── artistProfiling.ts       # Core profiling algorithms
│   ├── chatAnalysis.ts          # AI chat message analysis
│   ├── grantMatching.ts         # Grant recommendation engine
│   ├── assessmentMapping.ts     # Schema mapping utilities
│   ├── industryBenchmarks.ts    # Genre benchmarks & calculations
│   └── computeStage.ts          # Maturity stage computation
├── types/
│   ├── artistAssessment.ts      # Artist profiling interfaces
│   ├── catalogAnalysis.ts       # Catalog analysis result types
│   └── grants.ts                # Grant opportunity and application types
└── data/
    ├── assessment-prompts.ts    # Chat conversation prompts
    ├── assessment-questions.ts  # Assessment question bank
    ├── personality-patterns.ts  # AI personality matching
    ├── grants.ts                # Grant opportunity database (500+)
    └── reference-artists.ts     # Artist comparison database
```

## 🎯 Use Cases

### For Emerging Artists
- Understand current development stage and growth areas
- Get realistic project timelines and budget estimates
- Receive personalized recommendations for career advancement
- Learn industry standards and benchmarks for their genre

### For Developing Artists
- Plan professional recording projects with accurate budgeting
- Track progress through comprehensive maturity assessment
- Optimize project scope based on current capabilities
- Generate shareable project proposals for collaborators/investors

### For Established Artists
- Benchmark against industry standards and successful patterns
- Plan complex multi-phase projects with detailed task management
- Analyze market positioning and success probability
- Export professional project documentation

### For Music Industry Professionals
- Assess artist readiness for various project scopes
- Generate data-driven project proposals and timelines
- Provide evidence-based recommendations and guidance
- Track artist development progress over time

## 🔧 Configuration

### Environment Setup
The application runs entirely in the browser with no backend dependencies. All data processing occurs client-side for privacy and portability.

### Customization
- **Industry Benchmarks**: Modify `src/lib/industryBenchmarks.ts` for different genre targets
- **Assessment Questions**: Update `src/data/assessment-questions.ts` for custom evaluation criteria
- **UI Themes**: Customize `tailwind.config.js` for brand-specific styling
- **Chat Prompts**: Adjust `src/data/assessment-prompts.ts` for different conversation flows

## 📈 Assessment Methodology

### Maturity Stages
- **Emerging** (1-2 avg): Early development, basic skills and resources
- **Developing** (2-3 avg): Growing capabilities, some professional elements
- **Established** (3-4 avg): Professional-level across most areas
- **Breakout** (4-5 avg): Industry-ready with strong positioning

### Success Probability Calculation
Based on alignment between artist profile and genre-specific benchmarks:
- Audio characteristics matching successful patterns
- Brand positioning relative to market gaps
- Maturity level appropriate for project scope
- Market timing and competitive landscape factors

### Industry Benchmarking
Genre-specific targets derived from successful artist analysis:
- **R&B/Soul**: Emphasis on vocal craft and emotional authenticity
- **Pop**: High production values and broad appeal factors
- **Hip-Hop**: Lyrical content and cultural relevance metrics
- **Electronic**: Innovation in production and danceability
- **Alternative**: Artistic authenticity and niche positioning

## 📋 Release Notes

### v1.1.0 - Grant Discovery & Application Management (October 2025)

**🚀 Major New Features:**
- **Comprehensive Grant Discovery System**: Browse and filter 500+ real grant opportunities from major funders
- **Intelligent Grant Matching**: AI-powered recommendation engine with compatibility scoring (80%+ accuracy)
- **Application Tracking Dashboard**: Full lifecycle management from discovery to funding outcome
- **Smart Deadline Alerts**: Automated reminders and urgency indicators for upcoming deadlines
- **Industry-Specific Eligibility**: Precise matching based on career stage, genre, and geographic location

**🎯 Grant Database Includes:**
- National Endowment for the Arts (NEA) grants up to $100K
- ASCAP Foundation emerging artist grants ($1K-$15K)
- Fractured Atlas emergency relief funding
- Grammy Foundation education grants
- State arts agency individual artist support
- Foundation for Contemporary Arts emergency grants
- Recording industry development funding
- Community foundation arts grants

**⚡ Smart Features:**
- **Compatibility Scoring**: Advanced algorithm analyzing 7 factors for grant alignment
- **Personalized Recommendations**: Tailored suggestions based on artist assessment data
- **Application Materials Tracking**: Interactive checklists for required documents
- **Success Probability Analysis**: Data-driven predictions based on historical success rates
- **Multi-Filter Search**: Filter by amount, deadline, category, funding source, and eligibility

**🔧 Enhanced User Experience:**
- **Tabbed Navigation**: Clean separation between project planning, grant discovery, and applications
- **Real-Time Progress Tracking**: Visual indicators for application completion status
- **Reminder System**: Custom alerts for deadlines, materials, and follow-ups
- **Export Capabilities**: Download grant lists and application data
- **Mobile-Responsive Design**: Optimized for grant research on any device

**📊 Technical Improvements:**
- **TypeScript Grant Schema**: Comprehensive interfaces for grant opportunities and applications
- **Advanced Filtering Engine**: High-performance search with multiple criteria
- **State Management Enhancement**: Persistent storage for saved grants and applications
- **Integration APIs**: Foundation for future platform integrations (Submittable, GrantStation)

### v1.0.0 - Foundation Release (October 2025)

**🎨 AI-Powered Artist Assessment:**
- Natural language chat interface for artistic profiling
- Personality trait extraction and sonic characteristic analysis
- Industry benchmarking with genre-specific targets (Beyoncé-adjacent modeling)
- Success probability calculations with personalized recommendations

**📊 Professional Project Management:**
- Dynamic timeline generation based on artist maturity stage
- Scalable budget estimation with grant support integration
- Phase-based organization (Discovery → Pre-Production → Production → Post-Production → Release → Growth)
- Interactive charts and data visualizations using Recharts

**🎯 Comprehensive Assessment Matrix:**
- Six-factor maturity evaluation (Craft, Catalog, Brand, Team, Audience, Operations)
- Progress tracking with detailed status indicators
- Schema-compliant data structure for industry standards
- Export/import functionality and shareable project URLs

**🏗️ Technical Foundation:**
- React 18 + TypeScript for type-safe development
- Vite for optimized builds and fast development
- Tailwind CSS for professional, responsive design
- localStorage persistence with URL state sharing
- Comprehensive TypeScript interfaces and modular architecture

## 🤝 Contributing

This is a comprehensive, production-ready application suitable for:
- Music industry professionals and consultants
- Artist development organizations and programs
- Educational institutions teaching music business
- Independent artists planning professional projects

The codebase follows TypeScript best practices with comprehensive type safety, modular architecture, and extensive documentation.

## 📄 License

MIT License - Built with modern web technologies and industry-standard practices for professional music career development and project planning.

---

**Artist Roadmap v1.0** - Empowering music artists with AI-driven insights and professional project planning tools.

Commit message:

docs(readme): add v1.3.3 release summary link and multi-artist portfolio section

README.md, after:

# Artist Roadmap v1.3.3

A comprehensive React + TypeScript application for AI-powered artist assessment, project planning, and music career development.

> **Latest Release (v1.3.3):** Multi-artist portfolio management is here! Manage 20+ artists, compare side-by-side with radar charts, view portfolio analytics, and run bulk operations. [📄 Read the release summary](./RELEASE_SUMMARY_v1.3.3.md) for a quick overview.

## 🎯 Overview

The Artist Roadmap combines AI-driven personality assessment with professional project management tools to help music artists:

- **Assess readiness** through AI-powered chat analysis and maturity evaluation
- **Plan projects** with realistic timelines and budget estimation
- **Get insights** from industry benchmarks and success probability calculations
- **Track progress** through comprehensive project management tools

## ✨ Key Features

### 🗂️ Multi-Artist Portfolio Management (NEW in v1.3.3)
- **Portfolio Dashboard**: Manage 20+ artists with search, filter, sort, and dual view modes (grid/list)
- **Artist Comparison**: Compare 2-3 artists side-by-side with radar charts and investment readiness scoring (0-100)
- **Portfolio Analytics**: Quality distribution, genre/stage breakdowns, top performers leaderboard
- **Bulk Operations**: Select all, export to JSON, and batch delete with confirmation
- **Auto-Migration**: Existing single-artist projects automatically convert to portfolio format (no data loss)

### 🎵 Multi-Track Catalog Analysis
- **Spotify Integration**: Import tracks directly via Spotify URL (or download & upload)
- **Audio Feature Extraction**: Tempo, energy, danceability, acousticness, valence, and more
- **Quality Scoring**: Professional assessment of production, mix, arrangement, and vocals
- **Consistency Analysis**: Track-to-track quality variance and reliability metrics
- **Trend Detection**: Quality progression over time (improving/declining/stable)
- **Sonic Identity**: Genre fingerprint and stylistic coherence analysis

### 🤖 AI-Powered Strategic Planning
- **Context-Aware Chat**: Planning conversation informed by your catalog analysis
- **Smart Recommendations**: Project suggestions based on actual music quality and quantity
- **Planning Focus**: Timeline, budget, and goal-oriented questions (not personality tests)
- **Progress Tracking**: Visual indicators show planning completion status
- **Intelligent Defaults**: Chat responses inform automatic roadmap generation

### 📊 Data-Driven Roadmap Generation
- **Smart Project Type**: Album/EP/Singles automatically suggested based on catalog metrics
- **Adaptive Timeline**: Adjusts for artist maturity stage and project complexity
- **Budget Estimation**: Scales with scope and includes grant funding opportunities
- **Phase-Based Organization**: Discovery → Pre-Production → Production → Post-Production → Release → Growth
- **Interactive Visualizations**: Timeline and budget charts using Recharts

### � Grant Discovery & Application Tracking
- **500+ Real Opportunities**: Comprehensive database of music grants and funding
- **Intelligent Matching**: AI-powered compatibility scoring (80%+ accuracy)
- **Application Management**: Full lifecycle tracking from discovery to funding outcome
- **Deadline Alerts**: Automated reminders and urgency indicators
- **Eligibility Filtering**: Stage, genre, location, and amount-based search

### 🔄 Returning User Experience
- **Welcome Back Dashboard**: Personalized greeting and status overview
- **Quick Actions**: Jump directly to Continue, Re-analyze, View Roadmap, or Explore Grants
- **Progress Preservation**: No forced re-onboarding for users with existing data
- **Smart Resume**: Automatically returns to your last active section
- **Data Persistence**: Automatic localStorage backup with manual reset options

## 🚀 Quick Start

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/trentbecknell/soundsexpensive.git
cd soundsexpensive

# Install dependencies
npm install

# Start development server
npm run dev

# Build for production
npm run build

# Preview production build
npm run preview
```

## 💡 How It Works

The Artist Roadmap uses an **analysis-first approach** that ensures data-driven planning:

### 1. Catalog Analysis (Analyze Your Current State)
Start by understanding where you are today:
- **Upload or connect your music** via Spotify URL or direct file upload
- **Multi-track analysis** assesses quality, consistency, and sonic identity
- **Quality progression tracking** shows improvement trends over time
- **Genre and style consistency** reveals your sonic fingerprint
- **Actionable insights** highlight strengths and growth opportunities

### 2. Strategic Planning Chat (Plan Your Next Move)
Have a focused conversation about your goals:
- **Context-aware AI** references your catalog analysis results
- **Planning-focused questions** about timeline, budget, and goals
- **Smart suggestions** based on your actual music quality and quantity
- **Progress tracking** ensures comprehensive planning (minimum 3 responses)
- **No personality tests** - just practical, forward-looking strategy

### 3. Smart Roadmap Generation (Build Your Path Forward)
Automatically generate an intelligent project plan:
- **Data-driven project type** (Album/EP/Singles) based on catalog quality and quantity
- **Realistic timeline** adjusts for your maturity level and catalog readiness
- **Budget estimation** scales with project scope and includes grant opportunities
- **Phase-based tasks** organized from Discovery → Release → Growth
- **Visual charts** for timeline and budget analysis

### 4. Returning User Experience
Personalized dashboard for users with existing progress:
- **Welcome back greeting** with time-of-day awareness
- **Status overview** showing catalog analysis, roadmap, and grant tracking
- **Quick actions** to continue where you left off
- **No forced re-onboarding** - jump straight back into your work

### Why This Flow Works
1. **Real data drives decisions** - analyze actual music before planning
2. **No wasted effort** - catalog insights inform every recommendation
3. **Faster to value** - skip repetitive setup on return visits
4. **Context-aware planning** - chat knows your music's strengths and gaps
5. **Smart defaults** - roadmap suggestions based on proven patterns

## 🏗️ Technical Architecture

### Frontend Stack
- **React 18** with TypeScript for type-safe development
- **Vite** for lightning-fast development and optimized builds
- **Tailwind CSS** for utility-first styling and responsive design
- **Recharts** for interactive data visualizations

### Data Layer
- **Schema-Based Assessment**: Comprehensive TypeScript interfaces
- **Industry Benchmarks**: Genre-specific modeling and calculations
- **State Management**: React hooks with localStorage persistence
- **Analysis Engine**: Natural language processing for chat assessment

### Project Structure
```
src/
├── App.tsx                      # Main application orchestration & flow control
├── components/
│   ├── OnboardingWelcome.tsx    # First-time user 3-step journey explanation
│   ├── WelcomeBackDashboard.tsx # Returning user dashboard with quick actions
│   ├── CatalogAnalyzer.tsx      # Multi-track analysis with Spotify integration
│   ├── Chat.tsx                 # Planning-focused AI chat interface
│   ├── GrantDiscovery.tsx       # Grant browsing and filtering
│   ├── GrantApplicationTracker.tsx # Application lifecycle management
│   ├── AssessmentWizard.tsx     # Guided maturity assessment
│   └── Toast.tsx                # Notification system
├── lib/
│   ├── artistProfiling.ts       # Core profiling algorithms
│   ├── chatAnalysis.ts          # AI chat message analysis
│   ├── grantMatching.ts         # Grant recommendation engine
│   ├── assessmentMapping.ts     # Schema mapping utilities
│   ├── industryBenchmarks.ts    # Genre benchmarks & calculations
│   └── computeStage.ts          # Maturity stage computation
├── types/
│   ├── artistAssessment.ts      # Artist profiling interfaces
│   ├── catalogAnalysis.ts       # Catalog analysis result types
│   └── grants.ts                # Grant opportunity and application types
└── data/
    ├── assessment-prompts.ts    # Chat conversation prompts
    ├── assessment-questions.ts  # Assessment question bank
    ├── personality-patterns.ts  # AI personality matching
    ├── grants.ts                # Grant opportunity database (500+)
    └── reference-artists.ts     # Artist comparison database
```

## 🎯 Use Cases

### For Emerging Artists
- Understand current development stage and growth areas
- Get realistic project timelines and budget estimates
- Receive personalized recommendations for career advancement
- Learn industry standards and benchmarks for their genre

### For Developing Artists
- Plan professional recording projects with accurate budgeting
- Track progress through comprehensive maturity assessment
- Optimize project scope based on current capabilities
- Generate shareable project proposals for collaborators/investors

### For Established Artists
- Benchmark against industry standards and successful patterns
- Plan complex multi-phase projects with detailed task management
- Analyze market positioning and success probability
- Export professional project documentation

### For Music Industry Professionals
- Assess artist readiness for various project scopes
- Generate data-driven project proposals and timelines
- Provide evidence-based recommendations and guidance
- Track artist development progress over time

## 🔧 Configuration

### Environment Setup
The application runs entirely in the browser with no backend dependencies. All data processing occurs client-side for privacy and portability.

### Customization
- **Industry Benchmarks**: Modify `src/lib/industryBenchmarks.ts` for different genre targets
- **Assessment Questions**: Update `src/data/assessment-questions.ts` for custom evaluation criteria
- **UI Themes**: Customize `tailwind.config.js` for brand-specific styling
- **Chat Prompts**: Adjust `src/data/assessment-prompts.ts` for different conversation flows

## 📈 Assessment Methodology

### Maturity Stages
- **Emerging** (1-2 avg): Early development, basic skills and resources
- **Developing** (2-3 avg): Growing capabilities, some professional elements
- **Established** (3-4 avg): Professional-level across most areas
- **Breakout** (4-5 avg): Industry-ready with strong positioning

### Success Probability Calculation
Based on alignment between artist profile and genre-specific benchmarks:
- Audio characteristics matching successful patterns
- Brand positioning relative to market gaps
- Maturity level appropriate for project scope
- Market timing and competitive landscape factors

### Industry Benchmarking
Genre-specific targets derived from successful artist analysis:
- **R&B/Soul**: Emphasis on vocal craft and emotional authenticity
- **Pop**: High production values and broad appeal factors
- **Hip-Hop**: Lyrical content and cultural relevance metrics
- **Electronic**: Innovation in production and danceability
- **Alternative**: Artistic authenticity and niche positioning

## 📋 Release Notes

### v1.1.0 - Grant Discovery & Application Management (October 2025)

**🚀 Major New Features:**
- **Comprehensive Grant Discovery System**: Browse and filter 500+ real grant opportunities from major funders
- **Intelligent Grant Matching**: AI-powered recommendation engine with compatibility scoring (80%+ accuracy)
- **Application Tracking Dashboard**: Full lifecycle management from discovery to funding outcome
- **Smart Deadline Alerts**: Automated reminders and urgency indicators for upcoming deadlines
- **Industry-Specific Eligibility**: Precise matching based on career stage, genre, and geographic location

**🎯 Grant Database Includes:**
- National Endowment for the Arts (NEA) grants up to $100K
- ASCAP Foundation emerging artist grants ($1K-$15K)
- Fractured Atlas emergency relief funding
- Grammy Foundation education grants
- State arts agency individual artist support
- Foundation for Contemporary Arts emergency grants
- Recording industry development funding
- Community foundation arts grants

**⚡ Smart Features:**
- **Compatibility Scoring**: Advanced algorithm analyzing 7 factors for grant alignment
- **Personalized Recommendations**: Tailored suggestions based on artist assessment data
- **Application Materials Tracking**: Interactive checklists for required documents
- **Success Probability Analysis**: Data-driven predictions based on historical success rates
- **Multi-Filter Search**: Filter by amount, deadline, category, funding source, and eligibility

**🔧 Enhanced User Experience:**
- **Tabbed Navigation**: Clean separation between project planning, grant discovery, and applications
- **Real-Time Progress Tracking**: Visual indicators for application completion status
- **Reminder System**: Custom alerts for deadlines, materials, and follow-ups
- **Export Capabilities**: Download grant lists and application data
- **Mobile-Responsive Design**: Optimized for grant research on any device

**📊 Technical Improvements:**
- **TypeScript Grant Schema**: Comprehensive interfaces for grant opportunities and applications
- **Advanced Filtering Engine**: High-performance search with multiple criteria
- **State Management Enhancement**: Persistent storage for saved grants and applications
- **Integration APIs**: Foundation for future platform integrations (Submittable, GrantStation)

### v1.0.0 - Foundation Release (October 2025)

**🎨 AI-Powered Artist Assessment:**
- Natural language chat interface for artistic profiling
- Personality trait extraction and sonic characteristic analysis
- Industry benchmarking with genre-specific targets (Beyoncé-adjacent modeling)
- Success probability calculations with personalized recommendations

**📊 Professional Project Management:**
- Dynamic timeline generation based on artist maturity stage
- Scalable budget estimation with grant support integration
- Phase-based organization (Discovery → Pre-Production → Production → Post-Production → Release → Growth)
- Interactive charts and data visualizations using Recharts

**🎯 Comprehensive Assessment Matrix:**
- Six-factor maturity evaluation (Craft, Catalog, Brand, Team, Audience, Operations)
- Progress tracking with detailed status indicators
- Schema-compliant data structure for industry standards
- Export/import functionality and shareable project URLs

**🏗️ Technical Foundation:**
- React 18 + TypeScript for type-safe development
- Vite for optimized builds and fast development
- Tailwind CSS for professional, responsive design
- localStorage persistence with URL state sharing
- Comprehensive TypeScript interfaces and modular architecture

## 🤝 Contributing

This is a comprehensive, production-ready application suitable for:
- Music industry professionals and consultants
- Artist development organizations and programs
- Educational institutions teaching music business
- Independent artists planning professional projects

The codebase follows TypeScript best practices with comprehensive type safety, modular architecture, and extensive documentation.

## 📄 License

MIT License - Built with modern web technologies and industry-standard practices for professional music career development and project planning.

---

**Artist Roadmap v1.0** - Empowering music artists with AI-driven insights and professional project planning tools.
